For those of you that still following us, i want to say that we're still here, working hard on the project :)We just stopped posting new entries since we're redesigning/rearchitecturing the whole application, actually we've started to code everything from scratch, just taking pieces of code from the "old" version that fit into the new design when suitable.I'm going to share two video mapping shows we gave a few months ago using the old tool:"Ingenieria deMuestra 2" - Facultad de Ingeniería - Universidad de la República - Noviembre 2010This is the second edition of a fair where all end year projects for all engineering careers are shown.  It is of free access and open to everyone interested on see how is the University going in cutting edge technology research projects.We had the responsibility of closing the event with a 15-minutes (very long) video mapping show. Most of it was made with our Video Mapping Tool, and the audio was entirely built by our tutor and musician friends, capturing sounds from the very same place where the show was played.We've used four 3000 lumens projectors, two for the performance developed with our own tool and other two just to play videos over a side wall.See the video here."Noche de los fallos" - Facultad de Arquitectura - Universidad de la República - Diciembre 2010Facultad de Arquitectura proposed to their students different activities as part of the 2010-period final day. There was some artistic performances, rock shows, and a permanent Video Mapping pointing to the main room where the students attend to get their final qualifications for this period.The video mapping was entirely developed with our tool, and we've being used three 3000 lumens projectors for it. See some photos here.These two real experiences have proven, mostly to us, that we can accomplish mid-sized mapping projects and take them to an end with success. We also gathered crucial/critical requirements or features that any video mapping application has to have from the field, like multi-projector support, ease of use for non-3D technicians, etc.Multi-monitor is something that we're taking to the next level, with highly decoupled remote nodes/component to "play" what a camera/projector should, modeling projectors/cameras properly with corresponding visual representation, providing some calibrations techniques to when re-placing the projectors in the scene, etc. More to come in a few more days. Stay tuned!Rgds